---
title: Because I cant stop fiddling
categories: Custom Moves
tags: ['because', 'fiddling', 'press', 'entice']
author: Jeremy Strandberg
link: https://plus.google.com/+JeremyStrandberg/posts/3kaWHPjy1AC
published: 2017-12-15T03:42:20.855Z
updated: 2017-12-15T03:42:20.855Z
imagelink: []
thumblinks: []
---

Because I can&#39;t stop fiddling with the Parley move...  how about this?<br /><br />When you <b><i>press or entice an NPC</i></b>, say what you want them to do (or not do). If they <b><i>have reason to resist</i></b>, roll +CHA: <b>on a 10+</b>, they either do as you want or reveal the easiest way to convince them; <b>on a 7-9</b>, they reveal something you can do to convince them, though it&#39;ll likely be costly, tricky, or distasteful.<br /><br />Things that might convince them...<br />	• A promise/an oath/a vow<br />	• A chance to do it safely/freely/discretely<br />	• Appeasing or appealing to their ego/honor/conscience/fears<br />	• A convincing deception<br />	• A better/fair/excessive offer<br />	• Helping them/doing it with them<br />	• Violence (or a credible threat thereof)<br />	• Something they want or need (coin/food/booze/etc.)<br />	• Concrete assurance/proof/collaboration<br />	• Pressure from __/permission from __/help from __<br /><br />(This list would probably go in the GM Playbook, alongside other &quot;What&#39;s Required&quot; lists like those for Make a Plan and Chart a Course.)<br /><br /><b>Design thoughts</b>:  I&#39;ve been playing with previous (draft 4.5... link in the comments) version of Parley for a while now, and it&#39;s seen a lot of action. The biggest problem I find with it is that it just doesn&#39;t give me enough guidance on the 10+ vs. the 7-9.  I&#39;ve tried to incorporate a lot of <span class="proflinkWrapper"><span class="proflinkPrefix">+</span><a class="proflink" href="https://plus.google.com/113864117304127544117" oid="113864117304127544117">Johnstone Metzger</a></span>&#39;s thoughts and feedback, but the &quot;do it or choose 1&quot; on a 10+ vs. &quot;choose 1 or 2&quot; on a 7-9 just wasn&#39;t prompting me enough.<br /><br />What I like about this version is:<br />1) Keeps the open trigger. You don&#39;t need to establish leverage before you roll, you just keep your eyes open for PCs pressuring or enticing NPCs and roll.<br />2) It avoids being mind control by the &quot;or reveal the easiest way to convince them&quot; on the 10+. <br />3) Unlike my previous versions, the &quot;easiest way to convince them&quot; makes it clear that what I (the GM) should reveal should be the minimum, the most accessible avenue.  That might still be functionally impossible or really unpalatable, but you know on a 10+ that you&#39;ll get either success or the best path forward.<br />4) The 7-9 gets me thinking about hard choices, dramatic choices. &quot;Yeah, you could convince the leaders of the slave revolt not to murder their minders, if you suggested that they enslave their minders instead. What do you do?&quot;  <br />5) The bullet list doesn&#39;t need to be explicitly part of the move, so I don&#39;t need to include it (e.g.) on a basic moves handout.  It can go the GM Playbook.  It also doesn&#39;t have to be exhaustive, right?