---
title: For the ninth Last Day
categories: Miscellaneous Resources
tags: ['lakepeople', 'painting', 'survivor', 'survivor']
author: Magpie Games
link: https://plus.google.com/+MagpiegamesRPG/posts/U3LXPNF9QY3
published: 2015-01-09T23:17:43.445Z
updated: 2015-01-09T23:17:43.445Z
imagelink: []
thumblinks: []
---

<i>For the ninth Last Day of Anglekite, a survivor gave to me…a piece of his people’s legacy!</i><br /><br /><b>A Day&#39;s Work, In Sunset</b><br />The Lakepeople were not lost, were not abandoned, did not disappear. They were destroyed. Obliterated by Chri Kataur and its horde of scream-ghasts, about 20 years ago. One survivor. A man who would carry his scars as memories of his people, and reminders of the drive to vengeance. The Survivor fought to save lives, sometimes…but more often, fought to destroy those who would cause pain to others. The world sees too many grim heroes in these dark days, and the Survivor was a leading example of their number. <br /><br />His coming was a grim portent. His visage, a bad dream.<br />But none knew what he had hidden, the secrets he carried within him. They saw only his scars, not his hope. On the day that he met his end – as any such grim knight must – he spoke his secret to a companion. They found the painting hidden within a tree of the Liar&#39;s Wood. Protected with his people&#39;s sacred sigils, and hidden with misleading glyphs laid into the ground itself. The Survivor had put enormous effort in hiding it. <br /><br />The painting was named, <i>A Day&#39;s Work, In Sunset.</i> One of the Lakepeople&#39;s most miraculous creations. Not just image, but emotion, locked into canvas. It was a living shard of his people&#39;s creation. It was his hope. Some piece of them lived on within, and maybe one day, he could use it to share their legacy, their culture, with others. Bring them back, in some way. And if nothing else…it gave him comfort.<br /><br /><i>When you gaze upon the painting for an hour or more,</i> it clears your mind, and you can remove any mental debility you might be suffering from.<br /><br /><i>When you touch the painting,</i> you can call upon the memory of the Lakepeople. Roll + Int. On a 10+, hold 2. On a 7-9, hold 1. At any time, spend your hold 1-for-1 to ask a question about the history of the world and have the GM answer honestly through the knowledge of the Lakepeople. Take +1 ongoing to act on the answer. On a miss, the painting takes a piece of you into itself. <br /><br /><i>When you sing the song of the Lakepeople to the painting,</i> it becomes a portal into a pocket dimension of the Lakepeople&#39;s memory.  <br /><br /> <a rel="nofollow" class="ot-hashtag" href="https://plus.google.com/s/%23Anglekite/posts">#Anglekite</a>   <a rel="nofollow" class="ot-hashtag" href="https://plus.google.com/s/%23DungeonWorld/posts">#DungeonWorld</a>   <a rel="nofollow" class="ot-hashtag" href="https://plus.google.com/s/%23KristaCon/posts">#KristaCon</a>   <a rel="nofollow" class="ot-hashtag" href="https://plus.google.com/s/%2312LastDays/posts">#12LastDays</a>  