---
title: Hopefully its not out of
categories: Miscellaneous Resources
tags: ['faction', 'flavor', 'history', 'characters']
author: Kevin Bishop
link: https://plus.google.com/100424412140902570981/posts/VoLC1AHZco7
published: 2015-03-30T19:47:02.267Z
updated: 2015-03-30T19:47:02.267Z
imagelink: ['https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/lETw4FhHHsl9IBKRAU3ldiUY50GwvQR8yQsXS6gySwK00JwIVpsgJWQ7t0MRnhJRyIvthu5EdFXuvxTVKIJgW4ahjYPlqPSil5yYEXfK5QK3iKVdex2BvLHwrB9EC5sKwOb1_4ry=s1600']
thumblinks: ['2015-03-30-hopefully-its-not-out-of_tb.png']
---

Hopefully it&#39;s not out of place to mention this, but my brother and I have been working on a card game with some Norse-inspired flavor that&#39;s now made it to Kickstarter. While the game isn&#39;t DW-esque in the slightest, I&#39;ve used the flavor and art as a huge omnibus of inspiration for my current DW campaign, which is set in a Norse-ish archipelago.<br /><br />I&#39;ve turned this into a few campaign resources, including a map, a bunch of history docs, some fronts, and plenty of NPCs. That last part has been particularly fun, as you can rifle cards out of the playtest deck to insta-generate characters.<br /><br />In addition, the worldbuilding I&#39;ve done around this has been more divided by faction lines than racial ones. Each card&#39;s &quot;type&quot; (might, lore, craft, faith) ended up as the basis for a section of the map, with races then filling minor roles and being scattered everywhere.<br /><br />Anyways, when I started out I drew up a map and threw random flavor-appropriate names at it until I ran out of ink. Then I drew rough faction lines, added capital cities, fleshed out some crude history for ~2% of the locations, and boom. We started the campaign.<br /><br />We printed the map out and day 1 in full color on an 8x11 sheet of cardstock, and it&#39;s been really, really cool to lay it down before the players and say &quot;You can go anywhere.&quot; Since I&#39;m not overprepping, the whole map is largely &quot;blank spots&quot; from my side of the table, but because I&#39;ve got faction lines I can usually rough out an event for any destination they pick.<br /><br />Case in point, to start the campaign I made them all choose home towns for their characters. The towns they chose had no initial backstory, but later I used those as hotspots to steer them towards. When they got close to one player&#39;s town, I sent her a private message and asked, &quot;What&#39;s this town known for? What&#39;s your history there?&quot; and used the answers to create a session or too.<br /><br />Compared to some of the previous campaigns I&#39;ve run and played in, it&#39;s been enjoyable having a world where race doesn&#39;t automatically equate to faction. Not every elf is a ranger, not every ranger&#39;s an elf, and most importantly (to me), most of the NPCs are human without all blending together. Just by telling my players what &quot;color&quot; a character roughly aligns to, they get a pretty good flavor of what that character looks like, acts like, values, resents, etc.<br /><br />For anyone who wants to check out some of the other resources I&#39;ve been using as world-building inspiration, there&#39;s a site with a pretty decent gallery here (<a href="http://norsaga.meromorph.com/resources/" class="ot-anchor">http://norsaga.meromorph.com/resources/</a>) and a Kickstarter page here (<a href="https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/meromorphgames/norsaga" class="ot-anchor">https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/meromorphgames/norsaga</a>) which seems to be adding additional art. Not all of the hero card names+images are available (at least not yet, to my knowledge) but it already serves as a decent gallery for creating characters. There are also plenty of boss-style creatures that I&#39;ve been running to when I need a more epic confrontation.<br /><br />Finally, if anyone finds this map useful, I can toss up a link to the &quot;other world&quot; version. Think the Feywild, but aligned with Yggdrassil. I&#39;ve also made a version that has a randomly generated set of &quot;overlay&quot; points between the two maps, to really bend my players&#39; minds.


Attachment:

<a href='https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B-fRgMcAOKp5ejN0WHEyaXJzc3M/view?usp=sharing'>map1_mortal_realm.png - Google Drive</a>

