---
title: Hey guys, my first magic
categories: Magic Items
tags: ['third', 'thief', 'hidden', 'thief']
author: Daniel Powell
link: https://plus.google.com/113165164943915272090/posts/MvigcQdk7TD
published: 2013-09-16T00:06:18.759Z
updated: 2013-09-16T00:17:55.000Z
imagelink: []
thumblinks: []
---

Hey guys, my first magic item here (more technological than magical, though). Took some inspiration from <span class="proflinkWrapper"><span class="proflinkPrefix">+</span><a class="proflink" href="https://plus.google.com/110330901807759406775" oid="110330901807759406775">Tim Franzke</a></span>&#39;s post about the EoC Battlefist, as well as bits of the Artificer class.<br /><br />---<br /><br />The Third Hand of Gwin “The Knife” Flore<br /><br />A mechanical contraption of his own design, the legendary thief Gwin’s Third Hand functions as an intricate glove whirring with clockwork and spring-loaded with devices of all kinds. Lockpicks, hidden blades, powders and small bombs, lenses of every type for close inspections - these are just some of the tools at the user’s disposal. The device is so versatile that it’s complete feature-set was never fully recorded, even by Gwin’s closest associates. The Third Hand always seems to have a new surprise hidden away.<br /><br />The Third Hand of Gwin Flore is fitted like a glove to the users’ right hand and runs up along their forearm. It comes loaded with 3 ammo. It allows instant access to common “thief’s tools” (lock-picks, oil for hinges, small blade for prying, hooks and pliers, etc.) and can be easily concealed. In addition, <b>when you reveal a previously hidden function of the Third Hand to aid in combat or a tight spot</b>, describe it, expend 1 Ammo, and roll +DEX. On 10+ choose 2, on 7-9 choose 1:<br /><br />*It doesn’t jam immediately after your hasty activation, needing time to be re-wound and carefully reset before being used again.<br /><br />*It doesn’t accidentally give you more than you bargained for, activating another unknown function you weren’t sure existed in the first place.<br /><br />*It doesn’t loudly announce your presence with a boom, crack, and whirr, drawing the attention of those around you.<br /><br />---<br /><br />Looking for some feedback!<br /><br />I hope it&#39;s not too open ended. The idea is the thief could use purposefully vague &quot;hidden&quot; functions to pull off some cool stuff (maybe a smoke bomb, or a short range poison spray, or fire off some shurikens, or whatever else!) as long as the effect isn&#39;t too huge and off-fiction. I guess you could argue that the Thief could already do stuff like this if he&#39;s properly armed, but having it all in a little contraption just makes it cooler!<br /><br />I&#39;m not sure if ammo is needed if the thing is going to jam sometimes, but I didn&#39;t want it to be used in absolutely every situation (although the versatility is sort of the whole point of it!)